here is this guy who was the prince in
his country of zamundo could have just
taken the easy life that was given to
him but he wanted something more and he
was willing to strip all of that away to
kind of start over and say I want to
earn this position that I have I want to
show people that I'm more than just
somebody who was born into royalty and
so what he teaches us there is the
difference between earned leadership and
under leadership so unearned leadership
creates Pleasers and earned leadership
creates Believers welcome to 20-minute
leaders just sit back relax and learn
from the leaders of today it's a journey
each one is different unique inspiring
let's get started
[Music]
20 minute leaders is a proud supporter
of Make-a-Wish Israel and Tech to peace
and is in proud collaboration with
secret Court Ventures J Ventures
Riverside Femme Fusion VC Birthright
Excel J impact leap Google for startups
and hippo and in media partnership with
ctek
hello and welcome to a very special
episode of 20 minute Leaders with Chris
Clues growing up in the 80s and with
over 20 years of leadership experience
in corporate marketing Chris Clues knew
three things very well Hades pop culture
business and this crazy thing we call
life one day in his mid-40s he was on
his couch having a self-pity party over
one job that wasn't working out for him
flipping channels he stopped on the
classic 1983 movie The Outsiders and
literally jumped off his couch when he
heard Johnny paid say you still have a
lot of time to make yourself be what you
want yes he does still have a lot of
time to make himself what he wants he
thought to himself he left his corporate
career of 20 plus years and combined his
areas of expertise to create the popular
book series The Ultimate series on
essential work and life lessons from 80s
pop culture which includes two volumes
of What 80s pop culture teaches us about
today's workplace with a third title
scheduled to be released late September
of 2022 raised on the 80s 30 plus
unexpected life lessons from the movies
and music that defined pop culture's
most excellent decade he parlayed the
books into a keynote speaking career on
the same topic
Chris Clues welcome to 20 minute leaders
thank you so much for being here how are
you I'm doing great thanks Michael for
the megaphone I I want to say up front
that I appreciate everything that
podcasters independent podcasters like
you do I've been asked often if I you
know hey you should do your own podcast
but I know the hard work that goes into
actually being the the person who puts
the podcast together so I very much
appreciate you spending the time doing
that to give independent people like me
a voice
and while the the appreciation is mutual
thank you and there's a great team that
that's helping otherwise I wouldn't be
able to do this but really
um you know for me this is a gift so
that I can learn from people like you
about these different life experiences
different different perspectives that
you have and and like I mentioned right
before we started I'm particularly
excited for this episode because this
episode feels all about perspective and
all about change and and invention and
so I'm gonna jump right into it hey
Chris take me take me back to to your
40s you know even before that tell me a
little bit about your your your your
your life career sort of the different
things you've done leading up to the
different transition that made you do
what you're doing today yeah sure take
me take me back to your 40s gosh it
makes me feel like I've lived a little
bit of a life so yeah I actually was in
corporate marketing for a little over 20
years uh and for those people who are in
marketing you know that once you kind of
understand the marketing principles you
can kind of take those principles and
apply them to really any industry and so
I bounced around a little bit at some ad
agencies those are some larger
corporations like DHL those are some
smaller technology startups so spent 20
plus years in corporate marketing uh
prior to that for a few years when I
moved after college I moved to Orlando
Florida and uh I started out working at
Planet Hollywood and doing security for
celebrities there which is probably a
whole nother a whole nother episode
um and then I got my opportunity in
marketing so
um as I said 20 plus years there until
um about five years ago when I made this
uh complete change in my career path
what made what made what did what makes
a person want to do a complete change
like that I mean you you're good at what
you're doing you were it sounds from
what you just told me it sounded like
you were doing quite a bit of things and
you were moving around quite a bit so
what what prompted you to make such a
significant change
a little bit about whether this was the
career path that I really wanted as I
got into my 40s I started thinking about
you know my legacy and was it going to
be that I was a pretty good marketing
guy and that was about it and that was
fine but I wanted something more so
I was in a job that just wasn't working
out I think a lot of people have been
there and I was sitting on my couch
having a self-pity party of one uh when
The Breakfast Club came on uh iconic
Generation X which is my generation
movie The Breakfast Club and better the
uh the criminal or juvenile the link
went in the uh Breakfast Club says
screws fall out all the time the world's
an imperfect place now I had seen that
movie multiple times probably 50 or 60
times and I had never heard that lie uh
screws fall out all the time the world's
an imperfect place and so I sat up and I
said my screws have fallen out I'm in an
imperfect place what am I gonna do to
put those screws back in am I going to
put the same set of screws in and just
keep going you know as Henry David
Thoreau said not and Edie's pop culture
icon 1840s maybe the bass of men the
massive people lead lives of quiet
desperation was I going to keep doing
that or was I going to get a whole new
set of screws a whole new door and walk
out up to an entirely New Journey and
that's what I did
wow okay and so you're sitting there and
you're saying a whole new Journey do you
know what that Journey looks like or or
is it that what do you know is that it's
going to be different Journey
I had no idea what it was going to look
like although I will tell you that when
I heard that screws fall out all the
time the world's an imperfect place I
felt like there was something I could do
with that and so I actually wrote an
article on LinkedIn what the prep what
The Breakfast Club teach us about
teaches us about problem solving and I
got this great response to it uh really
amazing response to this article and I
thought maybe I have something here that
people are curious about so I wrote one
on Ferris Bueller and work life balance
and got a great response as well and
decided to write a little book
um figured out with a friend how to
self-publish wrote a little book uh then
I thought what else can I do and at this
time I had a full-time uh corporate
marketing job and I was doing this on
the side at nights on weekends and I
built a website never done that before
built a website positioned myself as a
speaker on this topic of What 80s pop
culture can teach us for work and for
life and before you know it I you know
I'm sitting here today September 27 2022
as a recording this and my third book
just launched today and a keynote
speaker around the country talking to
organizations about lessons from 80s pop
culture
amazing I mean okay so we and I have to
ask 80s lessons no life lessons from pop
culture 80s music movies what what are
some what are some non-trivial things
that that you often talk about that that
leave people you know thinking wow okay
this is actually this is something
relevant to me this is something that I
can learn from that I never realized
when I watched this movie or listen to
the song
yeah so what's really cool is I believe
that some of the best lessons for our
life in our workplace come from the most
unexpected places so I really looked for
some of these characters and movies
where you don't expect to learn
something but you actually do and I'll
give you a great example uh one of them
would be the movie Coming to America
which is in my opinion is uh it's a
great comedy but it's also romantic
comedy Eddie Murphy right Eddie Murphy
yes Eddie Murphy Arsenio Hall James Earl
Jones uh yeah great movie uh one of the
great romantic comedies of all time in
my opinion so Prince Akeem in the movie
uh Coming to America for those of you
that don't know you know he is Born Into
royalty in his country of Zamunda and
everything that he has is given to him
because he's the prince he was just born
into it
but as he gets older he realizes like
this isn't what I want you know I really
want people to like and love me for me
and I don't want things given to me at
this as easy as they are here as The
Prince and so he decides that he is
going to go to Queens New York from his
country as amunda and he's going to find
his Queen Queen's New York fight it's
Queen and so he takes a job at a fast
food uh restaurant called McDowell's and
uh he gets an entry-level job there
sweeping the floors and and picking up
the garbage taking out the garbage and
he says this great line again another
line that you just would pay attention
to but it just it hit me which is when
you think of garbage think of Akin
and this line resonated or it stuck out
to me because here is this guy who was
the prince in his country of zamundo
could have just taken the easy life that
was given to him but he wanted something
more and he was willing to strip all of
that away to kind of start over and say
I want to earn this position that I have
I want to show people that I'm more than
just somebody who was born into royalty
and so what he teaches us there is the
difference between earned leadership and
under leadership so unearned leadership
creates Pleasers and earned leadership
creates believers
so we've all been around people who
didn't maybe earn their leadership
position and what happens they have yes
people around them right yes men and yes
women whatever you want will do there's
no questioning there's no challenging
they don't know how to act around the
leader the leader doesn't really know
how to act as a leader because they
haven't earned that position earned
leadership creates Believers and you
only see this in Coming to America at
the beginning you know everybody just
wants to please him that we see him
being set up on a date or an arranged
marriage and he's asked her what do you
like and she says whatever you like what
kind of food do you like whatever food
you like and he doesn't like this he
really wants somebody to be an
individual be themselves and so he takes
this job you know cleaning the floors
and taking out the garbage and it really
teaches us a valuable lead about uh
lesson about earning your leadership
position how that creates credibility
and not only that but employee retention
if I'm an employee and I can see a path
to leadership then I I'll probably more
likely to stick around than if I just
look up and I look at all the leaders
and say how did they get there and if
they didn't earn it how am I supposed to
get there
so that's right
why is it so powerful coming from pop
culture
I mean because these are lessons that
you know we could sit down and come up
with a few of these uh a few of these
great lessons and write articles about
them and they will be convincing and
they'll make sense why is it why is it
different when it's coming from from an
un from an unlikely situation
in your opinion good question so I
believe the reason is that I I think
that we when we aren't expecting to
learn we actually retain more
information we retain it more so if I
put you in a classroom and I say okay
you're going to learn today sure you're
going to be paying attention you've got
your notes you're you're ready to take
notes and pay attention but because
you're kind of expecting to learn I'm
not so sure how much you retain it I
mean Point case in point is that we have
to all go back and study after you know
class or or you know learning something
in a in a learning environment a
learning setting but when we learn
something from an unexpected place like
a movie or a character or a line of
dialogue I believe they're entertaining
more and we take it with us into our
journey whether it's life in the
workplace and when that particular
situation presents itself we're actually
able to take what we learned and we can
attribute it to somebody or something
and say oh wait a minute
Prince Akeem that's right that's where I
learned that from instead of just again
learning it from a book or a class or
some PowerPoint slides of people coming
together I I believe we're retaining
more when a we're not expecting to learn
and B when we have somebody or something
tangible to point to and say that that's
what I can grasp in this situation to
teach me to to teach me a little bit
more
right it almost sounds like in in
therapy when a lot of times
psychologists would you know they want
you to get to the to the understanding
yourself or to get to the the situation
yourself in your mind because then
you'll actually believe it and retain it
and as and maybe they've understood it
for for weeks or months in treatment but
they want you to get to get to that
realization yourself because if they
just spoon feed it to you it won't be
something that you'll take with you but
if it's something that you comprehend
yourself which it sounds like it has
similar type of notion Here If you
experience now something like for
instance came and you say okay wow now I
actually and I this actually speaks to
me because and and you're internalizing
it for your own personal situation it
sounds like it's it's much more powerful
what have you found as you've been
sharing these
um with different people around the
world what have you been finding as the
reception to these
really positive and fun and people think
it's very different which I love uh you
know I think it's important to to find
things that are unique and different and
uh the feedback has been great uh
oftentimes when I come off stage after
speaking doing a keynote uh with an
organization and I come off stage people
will come up to me and they're really
surprised they think I never thought
that I could learn something from Jeff
Spicoli in Fast Times Originals
um it's true I mean I didn't think I
could learn from him either until just
you know five or six years ago when I
started pulling all this together and
looking at these movies and these
characters in a little bit of a
different way and so that's really what
I get the feedback that I get is people
are really surprised that they can learn
from these places that they didn't
expect to learn from
right and so tell me a little bit about
your own process for for creating these
discoveries do you tell me you know from
with the set the setting how is this
whole thing taking place
well I'm lucky enough to uh make a
living talking about 80s movies and 80s
pop culture which makes me super happy
uh so my research is watching 80s movies
and listening to 80s music which
I still can't believe I'll tell a quick
story I was in the airport about two and
a half years ago getting ready to go to
Aquino and I wear these funky Vans with
a almost like a funky design I think
when you have like cool shoes like that
it's kind of a it's a talking point and
it's good because you know I'm not
somebody who's gonna walk up randomly to
someone and start talking to them still
having a talking point like that is nice
and this guy sat next to me and he said
those are cool shoes I said thanks and I
said they're my stage shoes and he said
stage shoes what do you do I said on my
keynote speaker I'm heading to a
conference he said oh what do you talk
about and I said I talk about the
lessons from 80s movies and 80s pop
culture and he looked at me and he said
how the hell did you pull that off
and I knew in that moment that I was
actually doing something that somebody
else wanted to do and that was a really
uh incredible moment for me to be able
to say like wow I'm actually doing
something that that um that other people
would want to do and that was that was a
really that was kind of an epiphany for
me uh going back Michael to the question
you asked can you repeat it again
the process that you do the research how
does it actually take place and you're
sitting down you're watching a movie yep
what's going through your head
so this is a great question so uh what's
really interesting is that I actually
first and foremost I think about the
movies that I really enjoy and then I go
to the IMD database and uh the the IMD
you know is the uh IMDb sorry is the uh
yeah uh the movie database and I go
there and I look up the quotes from the
movie
and I say this is a movie that I want to
talk about coming to America Fast Times
original High Trading Places and I go to
the quotes and I start looking at the
quotes and I think there's a quote that
I can actually build a lesson around
there's something I can use and so it
starts with one quote and then I build
the lesson and the story around that
particular quote that's really how I do
it
wow very very cool okay there's a lot
more questions that I want to ask about
about this field but but there's
something else that I want to to bring
up as well a little bit about your
advocacy work and you you shared in one
sentence right before we started here
and and so and immediately sparked my
attention tell me a little bit about the
things you're doing outside outside of
this full-time job I appreciate it so
I'm a huge animal rescue Advocate it's
really important to me uh I was lucky
enough to grow up in a family that was
you know full of animal rescue Advocates
I have a 80 pound pit mix sitting at
times wow right now and he's a rescue I
got him about two years ago and he was
six months old he was he was basically
dead on the street at three months old
laying on the sidewalk couldn't walk
couldn't go to the bathroom essentially
paralyzed a couple police officers found
him scooped him up took him to a rescue
that I follow Wonder Paul's rescue in
Fort Lauderdale and they worked very
hard to get them walking again and a
couple of months of rehab and at a
Foster and then I got him at six months
old and he's the best he's he's my best
friend
um so I'm a huge advocate of animal
rescue I actually donate a portion of
the proceeds to my book sales and my
speaking gigs to wonder Paul's rescue
which is the rescue that saved Bodhi
there's a great uh movie another great
movie from the 80s Dead Poet Society
and John Keating played by Robin
Williams says no matter what anybody
tells you words and ideas can change the
world and he's right they can and in the
palm of our hand we have an opportunity
to put our words and ideas out to the
world it's the great equalizer you don't
have to be a celebrity politician world
leader to to get your words and ideas
out to the world you can do it in the
palm of your hand anybody
that's walking The Wharf I'm sorry
that's talking the top but you gotta
walk the walk as well so what a question
are you going to take
with your advocacy to make a difference
and um and for me it was volunteering at
animal rescues uh prior to having body
and now it's doing what I can from a
timely resource perspective to uh not
just
um uh not just donate to these these
organizations but also promote them on
my social media as well there's some
great organizations that do work with
bully breeds that I advocate for so uh
yeah that's my legacy I I tell people
that when you they're asked what's the
best breed of dog I said rescued is the
best breed
I love that and so tell me a little bit
about walking walking the walk and and
what you've learned about this the
rescue world I'm personally involved a
little bit with that as well
um what what has been sort of your your
take on this today and then you know
anybody listening here obviously so many
people are are interested are you know
saying yes of course we want we want to
take part but then that it ends there so
how what are different things that
you've learned that would be useful
well here's the good news it's very easy
to find a place to volunteer when it
comes to animal rescue they all need
help uh the people that run those
organizations work tirelessly uh to
promote and to save the animals that we
all love and so you can go if you just
do a quick Google search in your local
area you could find a number of
different organizations that could use
your help it's as simple as you know a
shelter near you being a dog walker
that's a really simple thing to do you
sign up you do like usually like a half
a day training and you can come and walk
the dogs anytime you want and believe me
when I tell you that the difference it
makes in a dog's life just to get out of
that that kennel and that shelter and
walk for 30 minutes outside it makes a
huge difference and remember people
walking through those shelters are
looking particularly mainly for happy
dogs but it's hard as the dog has been
there a little bit longer it gets harder
for them they get they they lose hope
just like we would lose hope and so just
something as simple as a dog a dog
walking if you're unable to do that you
know uh there are tons of organizations
that you can donate to if you have adult
type of dog that you believe strongly in
and if you just go on Instagram and you
search or go on Facebook and you search
for a particular breed that maybe you
you have an affinity for there are a lot
of organizations that could use you know
not just donations but also your support
when it comes to volunteering they're
right there are so many out there it's a
very easy industry to find a place that
needs help
yeah definitely well amazing work on
that end and
going back to to your work on you know
the different lessons from pop culture I
think it's it's so cool to to meet
people that that have made these
significant transitions to something
they're so excited about and they they
create value out of something that
they're passionate about and so I I'm
really excited to read the book the new
book coming out today myself and to and
to hopefully see some of these uh
keynote presentations live because they
just sound so cool and so relevant for
anybody and you know so a universal on
one hand uh but very meaningful it
sounds like um on the other hand and so
really thank you very much for for the
time and the energy Chris I really
appreciate it can't wait to share this
with the world and continue making a
positive impact on animals humans
everyone thank you yeah I appreciate it
Michael hey can I just point out one
quick thing uh of course there's a
lesson that is for everybody who's
listening it's uh in The Outsiders
Johnny Cade played by Ralph Macchio one
point says you still have a lot of time
to make yourself be what you want
and that is true for everybody you're
never too old or too young to make
yourself be what you want so just
remember that
I love it thank you so much Chris thank
you thanks Michael stay right everybody
[Music]